---
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/2021-06-13-BEAR/teaser_crop.png
  overlay_filter: 0.6
  caption: "Data credit: **Eun-Seo Cho**"
  # teaser: 
title: "BEAR: Fast and Scalable Robust PCA"
excerpt: "BEAR is a fast and scalable Robust PCA method. Also, it can be combined with downstream neural network to train end-to-end manner."

categories:
  - Paper
tags:
  - [Paper, MICCAI, Robust PCA, neural network, calcium imaging]

toc: True
toc_sticky: True

data: 2021-06-13
last_modified_at: 2021-06-13

share: False
---

<!-- <h1 align="center"> BEAR: Efficient Neural Network Approximation of Robust PCA for Automated Analysis of Calcium Imaging Data </h1> -->

> ***Approximation of Robust Principal Component Analysis (RPCA), Fast and Feasible on Large data. Real-time, Online update is also possible.***

- [2021. 06. 12] BEAR paper gets accepted to [MICCAI 2021](https://www.miccai2021.org/en/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}! Manuscript and Source code will be available soon!

## FANCY VISUAL STUFFS

Before begin the article, let's take a look what the BEAR does!
There are two input videos (Y), one is the calcium imaging data of GCaMP6s zebrafish acquired with confocal microscope and the other is the video from surveillance camera.
And you can see backgrounds (L) and activities (S) in the table.
Both input videos contains backgrounds and 

## Intro

Robust Principal Component Analysis (RPCA) decomposes observed data into underlying low-rank and sparse parts.
For the use in video data, low-rank and sparse data can be interpreted as the background and activity, respectively.
It is widely used in video surveillance, face detection, and also analyzing neuronal activity.

In calcium imaging, which enables optical imaging of the neuronal activity, analyzing the neuronal signals suffers from the high level of background fluorescence. It is desirable to separate the foreground (i.e., activity) from the background before applying downstream analysis, such as image-based neuron detection algorithms, NMF-based signal extraction methods, volume reconstruction, etc. However, lots of previous RPCA algorithms involve singular value decomposition (SVD) and need to store entire data in memory. Thus, they take a long time and lots of memory thus often impossible to solve for large-scale data.

We introduce a Bilinear neural network for Efficient Approximation of RPCA (BEAR) which is significantly fast and scalable RPCA algorithm. In addition, it can be combined with other neural networks for end-to-end training.

### 3rd

Note that L is the low-rank matrix.
It is differ to the matrix that just averaging or finding minimum values for each pixels across timestamps. (Maybe some of you guys may misunderstood because the L from the calcium imaging video is toooo stationary.) TODO

#### 4th

#### 5th

